Hey guys,
Chef Mark here.
Today we're gonna make
a braised veal shank.
Use the same recipe with pork shank,
if you feel like.
Today we're gonna
use the veal.
We've got a bone in here
on both of them,
some meat around the outside,
good flavorful broth in there.
It's gonna make this
very nice and tender in the end.
The next thing
that I need to get for this braise
is gonna be
some herbs for it.
So I'm gonna grab
some sage and some rosemary.
I've got the large ones--
they come in the smaller packs,
which is really nice
and convenient.
But these will add a lot
of depth of flavor to the dish,
and they hold up
to a longer cooking time.
Next thing I'm gonna grab for the dish
is our pan-searing flour here.
The reason why I'm gonna have you
grab the pan-searing flour;
because it's ground in such a way
so that it allows the protein
to shine through when you caramelize it,
but it'll still give us a nice crust.
It also has a little bit
of salt and white pepper to it,
so great
for seasoning.
All right, so let's
put these shanks together.
First thing I did is, yesterday--
I planned ahead, bought all my stuff,
and I went home
and I took my shanks out,
put 'em on a plate, season 'em
with salt and pepper ahead of time.
What this does is it draws in
a little bit more flavor for it
so it's a little bit
deeper in flavor in the end.
So I'm at that point now, so what
you're gonna do before you cook them
is just come by, if there's any
excess moisture that's on the outside,
we're simply patting that dry
and bringing that up
so it sears nice and dry
in the pan.
I turn my pan on.
We're at about
a medium-high heat or so.
I'm gonna put in a tablespoon
of our Extra Virgin Olive Oil.
I'm gonna wait for that
to faintly smoke.
I've got a pretty strong flame here,
so I'm gonna bring it up quick
and go right down
to medium-high.
And then what we're gonna do
is come in,
and I've got my pan-searing flour,
and we're gonna dust the outside of it.
I caution you not to put a lot
of pan-searing flour on the outside,
just a small amount,
'cause what we want to do
is accentuate the flavor of the meat
as opposed to browning the flour.
The flour helps to get
a little bit of a crust on the outside,
but we don't need
a ton of it.
It's not necessarily meant
to thicken this dish in particular.
So a little bit on the outside.
Just dust it lightly.
And that's gonna allow
that flavor of that meat
to shine through
once we go to sear it.
So a little bit smoky.
I'm gonna place that inside
and I'm gonna
brown this on the bottom
until it browns about a quarter
of the way up the sides or so.
Really what I'm looking for
is a really nice, golden brown,
deep, rich
flavor out of it.
So we'll let it sear.
All right, so these have seared
beautifully on both sides.
We're gonna
take those out.
As you can see, we've got a great color
on these, and that's, in the end,
gonna give us
a lot more flavor.
So don't rob yourself
of all that flavor.
Make sure you've really
browned those nice.
So we're gonna take now
a tablespoon of garlic cloves,
which have already
been chopped.
And I've got a full package
of our mirepoix.
This is that carrots,
onion, celery.
It's gonna give a good
vegetal taste to the dish in the end.
Next we're gonna take
two cups of white wine.
We're gonna
add all that in,
and we're gonna
bring it back to a simmer,
and then we're gonna let it go
for about 10-12 minutes
until that reduces
in volume by half.
Now that we have
our white wine reduced
and we've got that nice,
herbaceous smell to it--
and that's what
we're doing here.
We're trying to build a base
so that we're gonna cook our shanks
in that it's gonna
absorb all that flavor.
So if we have seasoned here,
the inside of our shanks
are gonna taste
seasoned in the end.
So I'm gonna take a 28-ounce can
of coarse ground tomatoes.
I'm gonna put in our shanks
back on the inside.
We're gonna turn it up
and a little bit,
and we're gonna bring this
back to a simmer.
We're gonna season
the liquid a little bit
because I just added tomatoes
that don't have any seasoning in it.
So a little bit
of salt and pepper.
Bring this back to a simmer
and make sure all of your liquid
is nice and even, the white wine
is mixed with the tomatoes,
mirepoix is mixed
around nice and even.
Then we go
on with a lid,
and we're gonna go in the oven
for two hours with this.
We're gonna
go right at 350,
we're gonna add a little bit of herbs
later in the cooking process,
but right now,
we're gonna go into the oven.
So it's been
two hours.
We're gonna pull our shanks
out of the oven.
Just take the lid off,
and you're gonna notice
that these are really nice
and gorgeous brown in there.
The liquid's reduced a little bit,
it's nice and caramelized in there,
but to add a little bit more
depth of flavor to this,
we're gonna add in a tablespoon
of chopped rosemary,
and a tablespoon
of chopped sage.
I'm gonna mix that in
to the tomato sauce,
and then we're gonna go back
in the oven for about 15 minutes.
This time we're gonna
leave the lid off
so we caramelize
a little bit more of the top,
and some of that rosemary and sage
start to really permeate the sauce.
So we're back with our shanks here:
15 minutes in the oven,
and these things
are absolutely gorgeous.
The tops have caramelized
a good bit more,
and each one of these
is completely falling apart.
You see I'm having a little difficulty
putting these on the plate,
but I'm happy about that because
these things are super nice and tender.
And to serve these,
I'm just gonna go on a plate
like this with a little bit
of the sauce.
But I might take that sauce and mix it up
with a little bit of pasta.
One of the artisan pastas
would be great.
I might mix it in here and toss it
for the last minute of cooking,
but this is one
definitely not to miss.